Edith:
This semester has been going alright. I have been struggling a little bit with certain things, but I am getting over it and working through it with friends. I have a good physics study group, and I have friends who are willing to help me in other classes as well. I may not be doing the best academically currently but I am determined for that to change and for me to do as best as I can from here on out. Originally I thought I stood no chance coming here because everyone was so smart, but now I know I do have a chance if I really try and apply myself to it. All in all, although this semester started out really rocky, I am determined to get better and finish strong, and continue strong throughout all of my future semesters.

Kay:
This semester is going well so far, the Physics content is really fun and professor Persans has an organised way of teaching. I feel like he is the only professor among all my professors that is actually delivering a lecture. Currently CS is taking a lot of time and I'm trying to spend more time on the Intro to Modern course.

Sam- 
So far everything has been pretty basic. I don't really have much to say about it. I don't really find classes difficult, more annoying in the way they assign large workloads. Overall classes are going well and I'm not really struggling in any subject yet. The social aspect is pretty good. Before I came here I was expecting to have to go places and talk to people to make friends. It turns out If I just go somewhere people will be, they might eventually talk to you enough for you to be friends.

Luther- 
I have been doing pretty good in all my classes and have stayed on top of things. Even though my classes are slightly more challenging than high school, I feel as though I have much more time to get things done for them. As for this class, I think I have found a great group of people to meet up and study with when new concepts are introduced and when reviewing for tests. Overall, my semester has been going well so far.

Alexis- 
Overall my semester has been pretty okay. Idk, Comp Sci really and truely sucks and the orgo unit in chem was interesting too but I am working on them both. With comp sci, I’ve found a good study group for both exams and labs so I am getting better at CS through that. With Chem, I attended some office hours with Professor Ma and will attend a few more this Friday to work on figuring out a few of the problems I have left with organic chem but for the most part I am doing fine with acids and bases now. As for physics, there have been some ups and downs but I am working on that by meeting with a study group now and doing a bit more reading and practice problems. Overall, other than that I have been chilling. Calc is fine and so is my HASS course mainly because I have background in both so it isn’t that different from what I did in high school. And as for general campus experience stuff, it’s been pretty okay. Better than I expected moving halfway across the country to a school and a state I had never been to before prior. I’m in clubs and have friends and don’t completely hate the dining hall or my dorm hall.

Bryan- 
My semester thus far has been fine and there’s not much else to say about it. All I do is talk to friends, do homework and play mario kart at like 2 am if I get the chance to. Perks of being a night owl compared to early risers: I get the TV to myself when everyone else in my suite goes to sleep. Anyways my grades are fine and I’m doing just overall okay, like things could be better but they could also be a lot a lot worse so you don’t see me complaining. I’ve kinda just been doing my thing and it's working so I’m just gonna keep on keepin on.

Jovanny- 
So far this semester has been very educational and has left me baffled in more ways than I could have ever imagined. I remember when coming to college, I would hear all my older family members tell me that despite this being one of the hardest journeys to endeavor, I would still manage to make new connections, friendships, take on new things, and just have fun. So far, this has been true, but I had no idea how difficult the hardships would be. When I heard school work will push you to the ground and kick you while you’re down, I thought they were honestly joking, but now I see that is a very true reality. Nonetheless, this lesson has just taught me to work harder than I ever had in my life and to keep going even when you fail. Essentially, my biggest takeaway from this first semester is that, whatever happens, great or terrible, at the end of the day it is what it is. Keep pushing forward.

Luke-
I think I've doing a generally good job with the current state of affairs for my courses. I've so far managed to do every (major) assignment for all my classes on time, and with reasonable grades. I've also managed to get solid grades on my exams so far. though I did recently do rather poorly on my DFQ exam, I'm not worried about it. I have a good understanding of where I went wrong with my studying and what I did wrong taking the test, and the class drops the lowest exam grade, so it won't even impact my grade. I am worried about the work that I have during the beginning of December, I have a test Dec 1 and I don't wanna study over Thanksgiving. There's also what I hear is a major HW for CS after Thanksgiving, and I have to submit my HASS essay early in December.

Ryan-
So far, my semester has been not horrible. I definitely expected my first semester to be really stressful and scary with a lot of new people but I found some friends pretty fast. I am able study and talk with my friends which I think plays a huge role in my anxiety levels. I still get anxious every now and then but I mean what college student doesn’t. Besides that my exam grades are a little worse than I would like but I am currently working on finding new and more effective ways of studying. Overall, I am doing pretty well.

