## Syllabus Review
- Review Syllabus and input important dates into G Cal
- Optional final!! yippee 
- Online tests, open for 7 days. 
- God bless Dr Greene

## What is the financial system?
- The flow of funds goes from savers -> "borrowers"
- A collection of markets and institutions of a financial type to allow funds to pass.
- Not all parts of the world have a financial system that functions smoothly.
- A financial crisis a breakdown of flows from savers to borrowers
- Borrowing feeds demand in the economy, both through household borrowing and borrowing to purchase capital and participate in R&D 
- The financial system can be broken down into two parts- Financial Markets and Financial Intermediaries
	- Financial Intermediaries
		- These include banks
		- Banks allow you to borrow funds as well as lend funds by saving. This benefits both parties, the lender gets convenience and interest fees, and the borrowers get the funds they need.
		- This is also known as indirect finance
	- Financial Markets
		- These include bond markets, stock markets, etc. 
		- This allows companies (borrowers) to directly sell interest in their company to raise funds. 
		- This is known as direct finance
- What is a financial market?
	- The [[bond market]] and the [[stock market]], allow buyers and sellers to trade [[Securities]].
	- The bond market
		- The bond market is also known as the debt market. 
		- It allows corporations to borrow money, where the corporation issues a contract that the buyer of a bond can purchase the debt of a corporations
		- bonds aka debt instruments
		- Bonds pay periodic interest rate to the date of maturity, where the bond is repaid. Earned interest may be taxable
	- The stock market
		- May pay a dividend, which is based on the profitability of the corporation
		- There is no maturity date on a stock
		- Capital gain/loss taxes can be taken on sale depending on where the stock is being held. 
		- A stock is a share of equity in a corporation. Aka equity/equity instruments
		- Two big domestic stock markets are the NYSE and the NASDAQ
			- NYSE is a direct live market, while NASDAQ is a wide network of "dealers" that buy and sell stocks. NASDAQ has 4 letter tickers, NYSE has 3
			- Two important indices include the S&P 500, and the Dow Jones Industrial average. The Dow Jones includes 30 major corporations, and the S&P 500 includes 500.
			- These stock indices are really important to monitoring the overall health of the economy. 

### Primary vs Secondary Financial Markets
- The primary market is the selling and buying of newly issued securities. 
	- An investment bank, a type of [[Financial intermediary]], underwrites the first sale.
	- The issuing corporation receives funds upon this first sale. 
	- Recently, some corporations have been directly selling securities to the public
- The secondary market is the reselling of financial securities
	- Price is determined by supply and demand, and demand is influenced by company performance
	- The issuing corporation receive no new funds. 
	- NYSE and NASDAQ are both secondary markets

### Money market vs Capital Market

- Money market trades short term debt securities, these have < 1 year maturities
	- Securities here are considered highly liquid due to short time length.
	- Sees less fluctuation in price, and therefore, are considered safer and less risky.
	- Smaller return then capital market
- Capital market trades longer-term debt securities and stock
	- Less liquid market, and can see wild price fluctuation


Upcoming- 
- No class next Monday 
- Request MyLab access code 
- Assignments are open

 