# Interest rates
- lenders charge [[Interest Rates]] for 3 reasons:
	- Compensation for inflation
	- Compensation for default risk
	- Compensation for the opportunity cost of supplying credit
## The financial future and present
- Use [[compounding]] to calculate the value of future money based on present money. Formula for compounding below:
$$
FV = PV(1 + i)^{n}
$$
- PV is present value, or principal
- i is interest rate
- FV is future value. 
- [[Discounting]] is the process of calculating the present value based on future value. 
$$
PV = \frac{FV}{(1_+i)^{n}}
$$
- Funds in the future are worth less then funds in the present, so future funds have to be discounted to find their present value. 
## Pricing of financial securities
- Financial assets often include series of payments made over time

## Debt Instruments
 - Four primary categories of debt instruments
	 - Simple loans
		 - A simple loan is a lump sum of money received, and repaid later on plus interest
	 - Discount Bonds
		 - A discount bond is a debt instrument in which the borrower repays the amount of the loan in a single payment, but receives less then the "face value" of the bond initially.
		 - So a $10,000 discount bond with a 10% interest rate would pay the borrower $9091 initially, and they would pay out $10,000 when it reached maturity.
		 - 
	- Coupon Bonds
		- This is a debt instrument that is repaid in installments of interest, with the face value repaid at maturity. 
		- The "coupon" is the annual fixed dollar amount of interest paid by the issuer of the bond to the buyer
		- Current yield is the value of the coupon expressed as a percentage of the current price. 
		- A coupon bond has 3 fixed characteristics: 
			- Timeline of payment 
			- Coupon rate 
			- Face value
		- These are also known as corporate bonds, and Treasury notes/bonds
			- All known as capital market instruments 
		- General Coupon bond formula 
			$$
			PV = P = \frac{r(FV)}{(1 + i)^{1}} + \frac{r(FV)}{(1 + i)^{2}} + \frac{r(FV)}{(1 + i)^{3}} + \frac{r(FV)}{(1 + i)^{n}} +\dots + \frac{FV}{(1+i)^{n}}
			$$
		- Fixed characteristics of a bond that needs to be known to find value of a bond
			- Coupon
			- Face Value
			- Maturity
			- Interest rate
	- Yield to maturity (YTM)
		- The interest rate that would make present discounted value of the payments equal to the assets price today
		- Basically, given principle, interest payment made, and time, solve for interest. 
		- General expression for computing YTM from simple loan 
		$$
		YTM = i = \frac{FV}{Principal} - 1
		$$
		- Example for YTM for discount bond with face value 10000 and price 9200
		 $$
			YTM = i = \frac{10,000}{9200} - 1 = 0.08695652173 = 8.69%
		 $$
		 - YTM for a fixed-payment loan is equal to the coupon rate
		$$
		\$ FV = \sum^{n}_{1}\frac{r(FV)}{(1+i)^{n}}
		$$
		